Welcome, in this video, we're going to explore the option of pulling with "rebase".
If you remember what rebase actually does,
it rewinds the current commits that are on your branch
to a point to where the branch you're merging in originally diverged;
then playing back the commits that happened on
the branch that you're wanting to bring in; and then, after that, playing on top of that
any commits that have happened on the branch that you're currently on,
thus making any changes that you have include the changes
that happened on the remote branch, but with your changes made ahead of them.
This is a good strategy when you're working on something,
and you want to make sure that your changes are ahead of
whatever's going on from the remote side.
To start things off, I'm on my local system on the website Git repository;
I'm on the master branch, and at this point, everything is up-to-date.
If we do a "git pull", we can verify everything is up-to-date.
If I flip over to the GitHub side, do a quick reload,
I'm currently on master, and I'm going to do some edits on the Readme fie.
Click on the file, and then click on edit this file.
I'm going to delete these two lines, and then replace them with something else.
Once you've made the change, enter a commit message,
I'm going to make my commit message obvious, so it's easy to spot when we do our rebase.
Once I'm happy with that, click on "Commit changes".
Now that I've done that, I'm going to switch over to my local repository.
So, I'm back in my terminal, and before I pull in any changes from GitHub,
I'm going to make some changes on my local side first.
Let's tweak the "index.html" file, and let's just get rid of some of this conditional stuff
that supports older version of IE. So I'm just going to delete that,
and maybe even tweak the title. Once you're done with the edits, save and then close.
Again, I'm going to make my commit message fairly obvious
so we can tell what happened after our rebase. If we do a "git fetch"
it's going to make this a little easier; you don't have to do the "git fetch",
but for illustrations it's going to help. Basically, doing so
will update our local Git with whatever changed on the remote side,
so that now, when I do a "git status", it tells me that
the local branch master has diverged from 'origin/master'.
In this case, I could just merge in; I know, in doing so,
it's going to create an automatic merge which would result in a merge commit.
And that's ok, but what if I want to make sure that
whatever I'm currently working on stays ahead of whatever's currently in GitHub.
To do that, I can use a rebase; so type "git pull", and then use the option
"--rebase" to cause a rebase instead of a merge when it comes in.
As the message says, it's first rewinding the local branch,
then it brings in our changes from GitHub,
and then it applies any commits that we had on the local branch.
So, let's check it out; I'm going to use my alias that I created before, "git hist"
which is equivalent to "git log" with a whole bunch of neat options.
So you can see, without history, that when it did the rebase
it brought in the updates from GitHub, it placed them before our changes we had locally.
So, you can see the commit starting with "1da8b22"
is what 'origin/master' is currently pointing to, which is our last commit from GitHub
on 'origin/master' followed by the commit we just made on our local copy on master,
which is updating the index file before the rebase.
However, that commit did not include any of the updates from GitHub,
so that's an interesting distinction. Before, when we had that on master,
it only had the changes that we included while we were here locally;
it did not include anything that we changed on GitHub during this demo.
Let's check it out; let's make sure that the changes
from GitHub made it down to our local repository.
First, let's do a "git status". We are now just one commit ahead of 'origin/master',
and that's just the commit that includes the local changes
that haven't been pushed back up to GitHub. Let's check out the Readme file;
we invoked our editor from the command line on our local system,
and it shows us the changes that we made to this file while on GitHub.
So, that means that we know that those changes made it to our local repository.
Alright, now that we're done, let's clean up by pushing up
any changes we have back to GitHub: "git push".
And since what we have locally already includes what was already on GitHub,
all that's being pushed are the changes that we've made locally.
Let's click on the name of the repository.
That brings us back to the main page and on the master branch;
and, we see that we have "Updating index.html locally before rebase".